## Work
Men - Sex by Occupation for the Civilian Employed Population 16 Years and Over

### Why is this important?
The *Sales and Office Occupations* data is derived from C24010_027E. 

Occupation describes the kind of work a person does on the job. Occupation data were derived from answers to questions 45 and 46 in the 2013 American Community Survey. Question 45 asks: "What kind of work was this person doing?" Question 46 asks: "What were this person's most important activities or duties?"

These questions were asked of all people 15 years old and over who had worked in the past 5 years. For employed people, the data refer to the person's job during the previous week. For those who worked two or more jobs, the data refer to the job where the person worked the greatest number of hours. For unemployed people and people who are not currently employed but report having a job within the last five years, the data refer to their last job.

These questions describe the work activity and occupational experience of the American labor force. Data are used to formulate policy and programs for employment, career development and training; to provide information on the occupational skills of the labor force in a given area to analyze career trends; and to measure compliance with anti-discrimination policies. Companies use these data to decide where to locate new plants, stores, or offices.

The 85 **Census Block Groups** (CBGs) that comprise the county are of unequal sizes. Typically, Block Groups have a population of 600 to 3,000 people.

#### Related variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm19'">Civilian Unemployed</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm20'">Serving in Armed Forces</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm21'">Men in Management,Business,Science,Arts Occupations</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm22'">Men in Service Occupations</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm23'">Men in Sales and Office Occupations</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm24'">Men in Natural Resources Construction and Maintenance Occupations</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm25'">Men in Production Transportation And Material Moving Occupations</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm60'">Worked at Home</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm61'">Worked Outside Home</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm66'">Women in Management,Business,Science,Arts Occupations</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm67'">Women in Service Occupations</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm68'">Women in Sales and Office Occupations</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm69'">Women in Natural Resources Construction and Maintenance Occupations</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm70'">Women in Production Transportation And Material Moving Occupations</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm71'">Women in Military Jobs</a>  

### About the Data
The Census Block Groups (CBG) are calculated by the U.S. Census Bureau.

Block groups are delineated by the U.S. Census Bureau to contain populations between 600 and 3,000 people, with an optimum size of 1,500 people. Block groups are the smallest geographical unit of the Census for which reliable data is available.

_**Source**: U.S. Census Bureau. Topologically Integrated Geographic Encoding and Referencing (TIGER) files_

### Additional Resources
|Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[American Community Survey 5-Year Data (2009-2017)](https://www.census.gov/data/developers/data-sets/acs-5year.html)| The American Community Survey (ACS) is an ongoing survey that provides data every year -- giving communities the current information they need to plan investments and services. The ACS covers a broad range of topics about social, economic, demographic, and housing characteristics of the U.S. population.
