## Sex by Marital Status for the Population 15 Years and Over
Women Never Married

### Why is this important?
The *Women Never Married* data is derived from B12001_008E. 

The data on marital status and marital history were derived from answers to Questions 20 through 23 in the 2013 American Community Survey. The marital status question is asked to determine the status of the person at the time of interview. Many government programs need accurate information on marital status, such as the number of married women in the labor force, elderly widowed individuals, or young single people who may establish homes of their own. The marital history data enables multiple agencies to more accurately measure the effects of federal and state policies and programs that focus on the well-being of families. Marital history data can provide estimates of marriage and divorce rates and duration, as well as flows into and out of marriage. This information is critical for more refined analyses of eligibility for program services and benefits, and of changes resulting from federal policies and programs.

Before 2008, the marital status question was asked of all people. Beginning in 2008, the question on marital status was asked only for people 15 years old and over. People 15 and over were asked whether they were "now married," "widowed," "divorced," "separated," or "never married." People in common-law marriages were allowed to report the marital status they considered the most appropriate. When marital status was not reported, it was imputed according to the person's relationship to the householder, sex, and age.

The 85 **Census Block Groups** (CBGs) that comprise the county are of unequal sizes. Typically, Block Groups have a population of 600 to 3,000 people.

#### Related variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm33'">Men Never Married</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm34'">Women Never Married</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm36'">Married Men</a>   
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm42'">Married Women</a>   
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm43'">Income - No Earnings</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm44'">Less Than 10K Income</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm45'">Over 200K Income</a>   
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm46'">Median Individual Income</a>   
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm48'">Median Family Income</a>   
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm49'">Internet Access Subscription</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm50'">Internet  Access - No Sub</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm64'">No Internet</a>   
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm65'">1 or more  Computers</a>   
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm35'">No Computer</a>   

### About the Data
The Census Block Groups (CBG) are calculated by the U.S. Census Bureau.

Block groups are delineated by the U.S. Census Bureau to contain populations between 600 and 3,000 people, with an optimum size of 1,500 people. Block groups are the smallest geographical unit of the Census for which reliable data is available.

_**Source**: U.S. Census Bureau. Topologically Integrated Geographic Encoding and Referencing (TIGER) files_

### Additional Resources
|Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[American Community Survey 5-Year Data (2009-2017)](https://www.census.gov/data/developers/data-sets/acs-5year.html)| The American Community Survey (ACS) is an ongoing survey that provides data every year -- giving communities the current information they need to plan investments and services. The ACS covers a broad range of topics about social, economic, demographic, and housing characteristics of the U.S. population.
