## Housing
Median Year Structure Built

### Why is this important?
The *Median Year Structure Built* data is derived from B25035_001E. Data on year structure built are more susceptible to errors of response and non-reporting than data for many other questions because respondents must rely on their memory or on estimates by people who have lived in the neighborhood a long time.

Median year structure built divides the distribution into two equal parts: one-half of the cases falling below the median year structure built and one-half above the median. Median year structure built is computed on the basis of a standard distribution. The median is rounded to the nearest calendar year. Median age of housing can be obtained by subtracting median year structure built from survey year. For example, if the median year structure built is 1969, the median age of housing in that area is 44 years (2013 minus 1969). 

The 85 **Census Block Groups** (CBGs) that comprise the county are of unequal sizes. Typically, Block Groups have a population of 600 to 3,000 people.

#### Related variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm14'">Median Gross Rent</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm15'">Median Number of Rooms</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm16'">Units for Rent</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm17'">Units for Sale</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm18'">Vacant Units</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm30'">Vacation</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm47'">Gross Rent as Percentage Income</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm51'">Median Year Home Built</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm52'">Owner Occupied</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm53'">Renter Occupied</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm63'">Median Monthly Owner Costs as Percent</a>  

### About the Data
The Census Block Groups (CBG) are calculated by the U.S. Census Bureau.

Block groups are delineated by the U.S. Census Bureau to contain populations between 600 and 3,000 people, with an optimum size of 1,500 people. Block groups are the smallest geographical unit of the Census for which reliable data is available.

_**Source**: U.S. Census Bureau. Topologically Integrated Geographic Encoding and Referencing (TIGER) files_

### Additional Resources
|Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[American Community Survey 5-Year Data (2009-2017)](https://www.census.gov/data/developers/data-sets/acs-5year.html)| The American Community Survey (ACS) is an ongoing survey that provides data every year -- giving communities the current information they need to plan investments and services. The ACS covers a broad range of topics about social, economic, demographic, and housing characteristics of the U.S. population.
