## Housing
Owner Occupied

### Why is this important?
The *Owner Occupied* data is derived from B25003_002E. 

A housing unit is owner-occupied if the owner or co-owner lives in the unit, even if it is mortgaged or not fully paid for. The owner or co-owner must live in the unit and usually is Person 1 on the questionnaire. The unit is "Owned by you or someone in this household with a mortgage or loan" if it is being purchased with a mortgage or some other debt arrangement such as a deed of trust, trust deed, contract to purchase, land contract, or purchase agreement. The unit also is considered owned with a mortgage if it is built on leased land and there is a mortgage on the unit. Mobile homes occupied by owners with installment loan balances also are included in this category.

A housing unit is "Owned by you or someone in this household free and clear (without a mortgage or loan)" if there is no mortgage or other similar debt on the house, apartment, or mobile home including units built on leased land if the unit is owned outright without a mortgage.

The 85 **Census Block Groups** (CBGs) that comprise the county are of unequal sizes. Typically, Block Groups have a population of 600 to 3,000 people.

#### Related variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm14'">Median Gross Rent</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm15'">Median Number of Rooms</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm16'">Units for Rent</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm17'">Units for Sale</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm18'">Vacant Units</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm30'">Vacation</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm47'">Gross Rent as Percentage Income</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm51'">Median Year Home Built</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm52'">Owner Occupied</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm53'">Renter Occupied</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm63'">Median Monthly Owner Costs as Percent</a>  

### About the Data
The Census Block Groups (CBG) are calculated by the U.S. Census Bureau.

Block groups are delineated by the U.S. Census Bureau to contain populations between 600 and 3,000 people, with an optimum size of 1,500 people. Block groups are the smallest geographical unit of the Census for which reliable data is available.

_**Source**: U.S. Census Bureau. Topologically Integrated Geographic Encoding and Referencing (TIGER) files_

### Additional Resources
|Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[American Community Survey 5-Year Data (2009-2017)](https://www.census.gov/data/developers/data-sets/acs-5year.html)| The American Community Survey (ACS) is an ongoing survey that provides data every year -- giving communities the current information they need to plan investments and services. The ACS covers a broad range of topics about social, economic, demographic, and housing characteristics of the U.S. population.
