## Housing
Renter Occupied

### Why is this important?
The *Renter Occupied* data is derived from B25003_002E. 

All occupied housing units which are not owner-occupied, whether they are rented or occupied without payment of rent, are classified as renter-occupied. "No rent paid" units are separately identified in the rent tabulations. Such units are generally provided free by friends or relatives or in exchange for services such as resident manager, caretaker, minister, or tenant farmer. Housing units on military bases also are classified in the "No rent paid" category. "Rented" includes units in continuing care, sometimes called life care arrangements. These arrangements usually involve a contract between one or more individuals and a health services provider guaranteeing the individual shelter, usually a house or apartment, and services, such as meals or transportation to shopping or recreation. 

A housing unit is "Owned by you or someone in this household free and clear (without a mortgage or loan)" if there is no mortgage or other similar debt on the house, apartment, or mobile home including units built on leased land if the unit is owned outright without a mortgage.

The 85 **Census Block Groups** (CBGs) that comprise the county are of unequal sizes. Typically, Block Groups have a population of 600 to 3,000 people.

#### Related variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm14'">Median Gross Rent</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm15'">Median Number of Rooms</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm16'">Units for Rent</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm17'">Units for Sale</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm18'">Vacant Units</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm30'">Vacation</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm47'">Gross Rent as Percentage Income</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm51'">Median Year Home Built</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm52'">Owner Occupied</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm53'">Renter Occupied</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm63'">Median Monthly Owner Costs as Percent</a>  

### About the Data
The Census Block Groups (CBG) are calculated by the U.S. Census Bureau.

Block groups are delineated by the U.S. Census Bureau to contain populations between 600 and 3,000 people, with an optimum size of 1,500 people. Block groups are the smallest geographical unit of the Census for which reliable data is available.

_**Source**: U.S. Census Bureau. Topologically Integrated Geographic Encoding and Referencing (TIGER) files_

### Additional Resources
|Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[American Community Survey 5-Year Data (2009-2017)](https://www.census.gov/data/developers/data-sets/acs-5year.html)| The American Community Survey (ACS) is an ongoing survey that provides data every year -- giving communities the current information they need to plan investments and services. The ACS covers a broad range of topics about social, economic, demographic, and housing characteristics of the U.S. population.
