## Means of Transportation to Work
60 or More Minutes

### Why is this important?
The *60 or More Minutes* data is derived from B08134_010E. 

The data on means of transportation to work were derived from answers to Question 31 in 2013 American Community Survey, which was asked of people who indicated in 2013 ACS Question 29 that they worked at some time during the reference week. Means of transportation to work refers to the principal mode of travel or type of conveyance that the worker usually used to get from home to work during the reference week.

The data on travel time to work were derived from answers to Question 34 in 2013 American Community Survey. This question was asked of people who indicated in 2013 ACS Question 29 that they worked at some time during the reference week, and who reported in 2013 ACS Question 31 that they worked outside their home. Travel time to work refers to the total number of minutes that it usually took the worker to get from home to work during the reference week. The elapsed time includes time spent waiting for public transportation, picking up passengers in carpools, and time spent in other activities related to getting to work.

The 85 **Census Block Groups** (CBGs) that comprise the county are of unequal sizes. Typically, Block Groups have a population of 600 to 3,000 people.

#### Related variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm54'">Work Transport - Car</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm55'">Driving Alone</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm56'">Carpool</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm57'">Work Transport - Public Transit</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm58'">Work Transport - Bike</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm59'">Work Transport - Walk</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm62'">Commute over 60 Minutes</a>  

### About the Data
The Census Block Groups (CBG) are calculated by the U.S. Census Bureau.

Block groups are delineated by the U.S. Census Bureau to contain populations between 600 and 3,000 people, with an optimum size of 1,500 people. Block groups are the smallest geographical unit of the Census for which reliable data is available.

_**Source**: U.S. Census Bureau. Topologically Integrated Geographic Encoding and Referencing (TIGER) files_

### Additional Resources
|Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[American Community Survey 5-Year Data (2009-2017)](https://www.census.gov/data/developers/data-sets/acs-5year.html)| The American Community Survey (ACS) is an ongoing survey that provides data every year -- giving communities the current information they need to plan investments and services. The ACS covers a broad range of topics about social, economic, demographic, and housing characteristics of the U.S. population.
