## Educational Attainment
Professional School Degree

### Why is this important?
The Professional School Degree data is derived from B15003_024E. It represents data educational attainment for the population 25 years and over. 

Educational attainment data are needed for use in assessing the socioeconomic condition of the U.S. population. Government agencies also require these data for funding allocations and program planning and implementation. These data are needed to determine the extent of illiteracy rates of citizens in language minorities in order to meet statutory requirements under the Voting Rights Act. Based on data about educational attainment, school districts are allocated funds to provide classes in basic skills to adults who have not completed high school.

The 85 **Census Block Groups** (CBGs) that comprise the county are of unequal sizes. Typically, Block Groups have a population of 600 to 3,000 people.

#### Related variables
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm12'">Students Enrolled in School</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm13'">Preschool Enrollment</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm37'">Population with a GED</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm38'">Population with HS Diploma</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm39'">Some College (>= 1 Year)</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm40'">Bachelor Degree</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm41'">Master's Degree</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm72'">Professional Degree</a>  
<a href="javascript:void(0)" onclick="model.metricId = 'm73'">Doctoral Degree</a>  

### About the Data
The Census Block Groups (CBG) are calculated by the U.S. Census Bureau.

Block groups are delineated by the U.S. Census Bureau to contain populations between 600 and 3,000 people, with an optimum size of 1,500 people. Block groups are the smallest geographical unit of the Census for which reliable data is available.

_**Source**: U.S. Census Bureau. Topologically Integrated Geographic Encoding and Referencing (TIGER) files_

### Additional Resources
|Resource | Learn More and Take Action | 
|:--- | :--- |
|[American Community Survey 5-Year Data (2009-2017)](https://www.census.gov/data/developers/data-sets/acs-5year.html)| The American Community Survey (ACS) is an ongoing survey that provides data every year -- giving communities the current information they need to plan investments and services. The ACS covers a broad range of topics about social, economic, demographic, and housing characteristics of the U.S. population.